All right.
So we just implemented the for each function where we iterate over each element in our array and invoked
our callback.
Now we're going to look at a similar function called find index.
Our objectives are to describe and use the find index function and then you'll implement find the next
on your own.
So first of all the find index method is a function that returns the index of the first element in the
array for which the callback returns a truth value.
That may seem a little hard to understand at first but we'll see some examples.
If find index doesn't find an element that returns a truthy value then the result of find index is negative
1 so negative one is returned if the callback never returns the truth value.
So this is the definition of find index.
First it'll take an array just like for each and for the second première.
Also take callback
and just like for each.
The first element is going to be the element that were on the the second parameter here will be our
index that we're on and the third parameter is our entire array.
Let's look at an example of find index.
So in this example the array is passed in the first parameter.
3 4 6 to 1 and then our callback function will just return.
If our current element name is equal to the value 6 so this expression will be truthy when the value
is equal to 6 and falsie otherwise.
So the way this work will invoke are called back on three and will get a false value or invoke it with
4 and get a Fosi value and then will invoke it was 6 and get a truthy value because 6 is equal to 6.
And then what find index returns which is different from what our callback is returning is the element
that we're on when we get a truth value.
So since this returns the truth the value element that we're going to return or the index that we're
going to return is two because for that element 6 we were on index to when a truthy value is returned.
So as I mentioned our return result here is going to be too.
Okay let's look at another example.
So this time we've got an array 5 11 13 8 6 7 and we're going to invoke find index passing in our array
and then our callback function and our callback function is doing something different here.
It's checking if the number is divisible by 2.
So the modulus operator checks how many times can I divide 2 into that number and then what remainder
will I get.
So if it's an even number we'll get back to zero.
It's an odd number we'll get back of 1.
So in this case the number five will return 1.
Right so that's not equal to zero.
That's a false value 11 will also return a remainder of 1 which is not equal to zero.
That's falsie 13 will also be falsie.
And then finally 8 will be truthy because eight maade to return 0 0 is equal to zero and will return
true.
So the value that gets returned from find index remember is not the element that we're on which is a
but rather the index that we're on whenever truthy value is returned.
So in this example what will get returned is 0 1 2 3.
The third index or the index number three the fourth element.
So our result is going to be 3.
So what happens with find index when we never find something.
As you mentioned before it will get negative 1.
So in this example we have an array of languages Java C++ Python and Ruby.
And we're going to call find index with a callback function that essentially checks is the current element
the current language equal to Javascript.
And given this array we're never going to find an element equal to Javascript.
So Java is not equal to javascript that would turn falsie C++ is not falsie.
Python is also not will get a falsie value.
And finally Ruby is not.
Will also get a Fasi value so this will always return to falsie value which means we'll get back negative
1 which is the result you always get back when you never find the truth value.
You never return the value I should say.
So the answer there is negative 1.
Here's an example of a comes take that people make when they implement their callback functions with
find index.
So here now we have javascript as an element in our array.
And if you think about our last example it should return a truth value because the language that we're
looking forward checking if it's equal to javascript.
But remember find index returns the index for which the callback returns a truth value.
And if you look closely here this callback function doesn't actually return anything.
We have our comparison here for language equal to javascript but that's not actually returned from our
callback function.
So in a function in javascript if we don't return anything the return value is undefined which is always
falsie.
So in this example no matter what we have here we're going to get negative one because there's nothing
returned and if we don't return something again we'll get undefined.
So our answer is negative one.
All right now it's your turn.
So think about how find index works and try to implement it on your own.
If you get stuck Don't worry we'll have a solution coming up next.